# Action Adapter
Action Adapter is Component of a system, that mediates communication between Knot.x [[Action Knot|ActionKnot]] 
and external Services that are responsible for handling form submissions.


## How does it work?
Action Adapter accepts message with the following data:

- `clientRequest` - object with all data of an original request,
- `params` - JSON object that contains additional parameters, among those parameter mandatory 
[`path`](#service-path) 

#### Service path
`path` parameter is a mandatory parameter that must be passed to Action Adapter. 
It defines request path.

### Adapter Response
Result generated by Action Adapter must be a JsonObject with the fields as below:
- `clientResponse` - Json Object, `body` field of this response is suppose to carry on the actual 
response from the mocked service,
- `signal` - string that defines how original request processing should be handled.

Find out more about contract described above in [[Action Knot|ActionKnot]].

## How to configure?
Configuration of Action Adapter is specific to its implementation. You may see example configuration 
of [[Http Service Adapter|HttpServiceAdapter#how-to-configure]].

## How to implement your own Action Adapter?
Implementing Action Adapter that meets your project requirements allows 
you to adopt request from Knot.x into request understandable by an endpoint service, and adopts 
responses from that service into unified message understandable by Knot.x.

For you convenience, Knot.x is shipped with a default Action Adapter called `HttpActionAdapter`.

Writing custom Service Adapter requires fulfilling [[Action Knot|ActionKnot]] contract.
Please refer also to [[Adapter|Adapter#how-to-implement-your-own-adapter]].

| ! Note |
|:------ |
| Besides Verticle implementation itself, a custom implementation of your Action Adapter must be build as Knot.x module in order to be deployed as part of Knot.x. Follow the [Knot.x Modules](https://github.com/Cognifide/knotx/wiki/KnotxModules) in order to see how to make your Action Adapter a module. | 

